Bill:
Of all the people to lose,
I'm really worried about nick.
I need somebody
that I can work towards
taking over the operation for me
when I'm gone.
I've looked at this kid
almost like a son.
Hey.
That was fun.
You know, he and zack
were on deck together
for the longest time.
And I wanted both of them
to make it to the wheelhouse.
But the deep root of the story
is I've been lied to
for a long time.
I always thought I was the guy
that could fix the unfixable.
But I've just reached
the end of my [bleep] rope
on this one.
♪ I'm wanted ♪
♪ wanted ♪
♪ dead or alive ♪
-- captions by vitac --
www.Vitac.Com
captions paid for by
discovery communications
[ sea birds crying ]
narrator: Halfway through
king crab season...
Sean: The water temp
is rising drastically.
The crab are in places where
they haven't been in the past.
Narrator: ...A historically warm
bering sea
has forced captains
to colder, deeper waters.
Man: Ohh!
-Ooh!
-Whoo!
[bleep] yeah!
I don't think I've pulled
a blank pot this whole season.
[ laughs ]
narrator:
Some have found the scent...
Man: Well, we know
where they're not.
Jake:
Well, we got something.
But it seems like
everybody else's were
like five times better.
Narrator: ...While others
continue to search.
Johnathan: I've definitely
seen better days.
This is chalking up to be
not a good one for johnny.
Living on a prayer, baby.
Living on a prayer.
Narrator:
And on the 155-foot  wizard...
[ indistinct shouting ]
...They're cashing in on the
first offload of the season.
Keith: Well, it was probably
one of the toughest trips
the guys had to put in
in a long time.
They worked their butts off
on that first trip.
What do you think
of our coiler?
Pretty nice, huh?
It's a fashion statement.
You watch --
everybody's going to have
a pink coiler pretty soon.
Narrator: ...Captain keith
oversees the final stages
of his 35,000-pound offload.
Roger: Yeah, a lean season
like this, every crab counts.
I mean, we got no bairdi
this year.
So every penny that we can get
for these king crab is crucial.
Keith:
Being efficient's important.
You know, doing it in the least
amount of moves possible,
the least amount
of pots possible,
of fuel possible.
Narrator: To keep his
business profitable,
narrator: Keith has had to
rewrite his playbook.
Keith: The biggest clue
we had this year
was the water temperature.
When it gets warm,
the crab go deep.
So we started deeper.
That's the gamble.
Narrator: Warming seas force
the veteran captain
to fish deeper waters
in the furthest reaches
of the western grounds.
Keith: So, I'm hoping that set
that we threw out
right before we went to town
pays off.
If there was crab
near the gear,
a long soak,
there should be crab in them.
But it's king crab.
Crazy [bleep] happens.
Narrator: With his first offload
in the books,
keith banks on this next trip
to turn this unusually lean
fall season into a success.
Man, I got to figure out
how to hell to get off this dock
with this wind
blowing me up against it.
This is not going to
be an easy task.
Narrator: But first, the skipper
must battle 40-knot winds
to get the 300-ton  wizard
off the dock...
About 20 feet.
...And do it without damaging
over $5 million worth of boats
packed tightly behind him.
Man: Trying to get out
between the  ballyhoo
and the  victory right now.
So it's not a good scenario
right now.
Keith:  All right. We can go
ahead and release everything
but keep one forward
spring line on, okay, guys?
And I'm going to spring off
that one line
and get the stern way out.
Narrator: Keith's plan --
keep the front end secure
then press forward,
causing the rear of the boat
to swing outward
then use the bow thruster
to counter the heavy winds
and push the front of his boat
away from the slip.
Go ahead and drop it.
Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
[ radio chatter ]
am I still clear
back there?
You have about 20 feet
back here.
Untie that forward line.
Okay, let him go
up there!
And we'll see if we can use
the thruster to push us out.
Hey, is the truster blowing
out the starboard side?
Hey, are the hydros on
on the [bleep] thruster?
Can't see it!
Narrator: The starboard
bow thruster isn't firing.
[bleep] crash bags
back there, guys.
Mother [bleep]
narrator:
Now the fierce wind drives keith
back towards the dock
on a collision course
with the boat behind him.
Get some buoys out.
Go get some fenders.
Did you turn
the [bleep] hydraulics
on the [bleep] thruster?
They should be!
We'll check the hydros!
We're going to confirm
that the thruster is on
and the hydraulics
are operational.
Hey, robby,
are they on?
Is the thruster coming up?
Yep! Yep!
Take it away!
Keith: Am I --
tell me when I'm clear!
You're clear, barely.
Narrator: With power
to the thrusters restored...
Thank you!
...The  wizard can safely make
its way to the fishing grounds.
Hey, max, go grab a can
of that pink spray paint.
Go paint the plunger
in my toilet pink.
And we're going to hand out
the first-ever
official pink turd award
for the guy
that forgot to switch on
the hydros for the thruster.
You said go grab
the plunger?
Go grab the plunger,
paint it pink.
And we're handing out the
first-ever pink turd award.
Narrator:
185 miles from dutch harbor...
...On the 107-foot  saga...
Jake: Hey! Sodium!
Left, top three.
You got to go up in the catwalk
and look at that sodium light
about to fall off.
-Which one?
-Oh, yeah, yeah.
The light's all jacked up.
It's completely loose right now.
Sketchy.
Narrator: ...Captain
jake anderson halts fishing
to supervise some
emergency boat maintenance.
Jake:
My biggest concern right now
is I have a sodium light
that busted off.
My boat is falling apart.
You're lucky that thing
didn't come down and hit you.
It's over somebody's head.
If that fell on somebody's head,
it'll kill him.
I can see which one's broken.
Want me to go up there?!
Okay.
Go ahead and clip it.
Tie that onto the bracket
and just lower it down.
-I'm just going to chuck it.
-Huh?
What are you talking about?
Narrator:
To remove the hazard,
deckhand dave felton volunteers
to climb the three-story mast
in pitching seas.
Jake:
Be careful, man.
Ohh.
Jake: Can you see it, dave?
Is it going to fall off?
Everybody watch your head.
Watch out!
One down!
Narrator: Their plan --
attach the 30-pound light
to the hoist line...
Move down!
...And lower it down gently.
Winch down!
Hard down!
Winch down! Something!
Hurry up!
Jake: Come on, dean.
Don't bash that sodium
into the other sodiums.
The other sodiums
are brand-new.
Down! Down!
Watch your heads!
Man: Whoa!
Hard down!
[ indistinct shouting ]
jake: Get it away from
those lights, you moron!
Hard down!
Man: That's cool.
We got it, joe.
Teamwork, baby!
Saga team.
Nice job, dave.
Nice job, guys.
Dave: That's pretty nautical
up there.
I'm definitely afraid
of heights, dude, and water.
-Can you believe that?
-Yeah.
Jake: The sodium light
slowed us way down now.
It's all expected.
It's all typical.
Do I want to deal with it?
[bleep] no.
Ready to haul some pots.
Time to do what we came to do
and haul some pots.
All right.
First pot on the bow.
Narrator:
With the light now secure...
Man: Whoo!
...The young skipper
can get back to chipping away
at his massive
200,000-pound quota.
Jake: I got everything riding
on these strings now.
We've hopefully
got them all situated.
I've got the owner
breathing down my neck.
He's nervous.
He will start tearing
the quota away from the boat.
Narrator:
And with time running short,
jake must fill his tanks quickly
or risk losing his quota.
Oh. Please, dear god.
Show me a sign.
What's in the pot?
No. No.
Not much.
Not much at all.
Females.
Lots of females in there.
A lot of females here.
Man: You start getting
into the females,
you start messing with
the livestock for next year.
You can't keep them anyway.
Nine. Nine crab.
Yeah. Roger.
Not what I was
looking for.
Jake: With the amount of time
that I have left,
this is nowhere near enough crab
to fill this boat up.
[ metal clanging ]
man: Whoa.
What is that sound?
Hey! Whoa! Is that --
[bleep]
jake: That's not good.
we got a bin board loose
in our tank!
It's going to spin around
in there and just kill crab.
[ sighs ]
[bleep]
[bleep] idiot!
Man: We got
a serious situation here.
Narrator: On the  saga...
There's a bin board right here
loose in the tank.
-The bin board...
-Son of a [bleep]
...Crab from getting
the crap beat out of them
when the boat's
going side to side.
That bin board's going
to spin around in there
and just kill crab.
Narrator: Bin boards are
4x12 wooden partitions
that protect the crab
from crushing themselves
as water shifts
inside each tank.
But should a bin board
come loose,
it becomes a blunt hammer,
smashing the crab
and killing them instantly.
What are we going to do now?
-I don't know.
-How much crab died?
Is the other bin board
[bleep] loose?
I don't know
who put these in.
What's going on
with my time now?!
Is it [bleep] dead?!
[ indistinct shouting ]
narrator: Too keep from
further damaging the crab,
it's essential
to position the boat
perpendicular to the swell,
keeping the water in the tanks
as quiet as possible.
Get the strap...
[ drill whirs ]
man: Watch out, guys.
Every one of them.
Narrator: One bin board
is a danger to the crab.
I thought it was just one.
Unreal.
Three are a wrecking crew.
Holy [bleep]
-watch it! Watch out.
-Drop it.
The bin board stopped that.
Watch the crab.
See what they're doing?
See all that weight?
Narrator:
But simply removing the boards
doesn't put an end
to the danger.
Imagine all that weight
crushing those legs.
Bin boards stop that
from happening.
Without the bin boards
in place,
the mere churning
of the bering sea
causes the crab pile to slam
into the walls of the tank.
Well, I've got two options.
I could keep going
or I can turn around,
go into town, and offload.
Pretty much
the two options I got.
The risks are high right now.
The risks of losing this crab
right now
after the bin boards
rolling around --
there's 20,000 pounds of crab
in there times 10 bucks.
There's $200,000 in there
right now.
Lose that $200,000 right...
Narrator: Faced with
the prospect of losing
hundreds of thousands of dollars
worth of crab...
Screw up a load like that,
you lose your job.
This just has to be done.
Narrator: ...Jake makes
the difficult call
to head in
before his tanks are full.
I just pray to god these -- that
I didn't kill any of these crab.
Narrator: 185 miles southwest
in dutch harbor...
[ laughter ]
...On the 113-foot  summer bay...
I'm looking at the front tank.
And the back tank
looks the same.
I'm going to lean towards
about 80,000 pounds.
It sounds a lot sweeter
than it is.
So basically
the crew made some money.
And we paid some bills.
Narrator:
During a grueling trip,
captain wild bill wichrowski
scooped up enough crab
to deliver a respectable
first offload.
Bill:
You know, no eastern bairdi,
king crab down 15,
opies down 40.
This fishery getting
cut down so short --
like, bam, all of a sudden,
that's devastating.
Narrator: A half-million dollar
investment on a new boat,
shrinking quotas,
and a surprising bairdi closure
still has wild bill
swimming in red ink.
I mean, last year we put in over
$1 million worth of bairdi.
It's going to be lean
for a while.
Narrator: But tight times
are not the veteran skipper's
only concern.
Bill:
You know, that last trip,
nick was really dead
on his feet.
Narrator: This past trip...
[ indistinct shouting ]
...Deck boss nick mcglashan
just wasn't himself...
I don't know.
...Raising concerns
that he has a terminal illness.
I don't have zack right now.
So I've been stressed.
I mean, nick's kind of like
almost like a kid for me.
Normally on the boat,
wild bill can take care of us.
And he's the doctor.
I have some problems
that bill can't take care of.
So we're going to the clinic.
We'll get checked out.
So we're all worked up
and freaked out.
And...
I'm thinking, "what the hell
could this be?" you know?
So we're going to
jump off the boat.
We're going to see what
doc in the box has to say.
He can look at this
and give us an idea
what the hell's going on.
It's time to get
this figured out.
My last one before
the doctor can tell me
that I cannot have
any more of these.
-Really?
-Let me savor it.
We're on the way
to the lung doctor.
And you're [bleep]
smoking a cigarette.
I'm going to beat
your ass, nick.
[ sea birds crying ]
narrator: In dutch harbor,
wild bill wichrowski
looks to get answers to his ace
deckhand's medical condition.
So, the doctor's notes.
Rest.
Yeah.
And quit smoking.
[ laughs ]
throw that away.
Nick: All my numbers were good.
My white counts were good.
X-ray looked good.
I was fearing cancer.
But the doctors said,
"you don't have cancer."
bill: Well, nick,
I didn't expect this at all,
for your numbers
to be good.
I'm really excited
that it's nothing,
like, looming over you
that's the end of you
or something crazy like that.
But I still
don't understand.
There's something wrong,
obviously,
because this is not you.
Thanks, boss.
I'm just happy
to continue working.
Narrator:
Down in the galley...
...Nick breaks the news
to his fellow crew members.
[bleep] you guys.
I get to stay, dude.
I was pretty concerned.
I was stressed out.
We started doing the test.
So, I don't know.
Clean bill of health.
Definitely not the same guy.
[ laughter ]
as this stuff's coming in,
I'm kind of going,
"what is it?
What the hell's wrong?"
honestly, went up there
feeling like this could be --
I could be losing a buddy here.
And I came away going, "what
the [bleep] is my buddy up to?"
narrator:
Back on the grounds...
[ indistinct shouting ]
...On the 110-foot  brenna a...
This is it.
End of the season right here.
That's the last pot
we got crab in.
Stacking empty pots now.
Five-zero!
Yeah. Did it.
Sean:
That's a wrap for king crab.
Narrator: After quickly catching
his small 52,000-pound quota...
Looking forward to going
and doing some cod fishing.
Maybe the only one
on the boat.
...Captain sean dwyer picked up
a permit to fish cod
from  northwestern captain
sig hansen.
As it stands right now,
jenks, per, and tirey
are all out.
Narrator:
But the majority of his crew
have better things to do.
-I have no desire to cod fish.
-No desire to cod fish?
I work my ass off
year-round
to make sure you guys
have a [bleep] job.
And you're throwing it
right back in my face.
Take your [bleep], pack it up on
the way into town, and be gone.
Sean: Apparently they don't
trust me to catch cod.
And that's what
it boils down to.
If they don't trust me,
then I can't trust them.
And it's...
That's not the kind of people
I want in my business.
I just got to find
some crew members.
These guys aren't
going to go cod fishing.
Sean's kind of upset
about it, you know?
He put a lot of time
into these guys.
But whatever, man.
I'll be here.
And if these guys don't want
to be a part of it,
then I know who will.
Call him right now.
[ keypad beeping ]
[ ringing ]
man: Hello?
This is sean dwyer.
Sean dwyer.
How's it going?
What are you up to?
What are you doing?
Narrator:
52 miles southeast...
Keith:
This isn't going to count.
Narrator:
...On the  wizard...
We obviously
are seeing warmer water.
And everything is pointing
to the crab being deeper.
We've been waiting for days
to see what's in this gear.
And we're going to
find out right now.
Narrator: ...Captain
keith colburn muscles up
to a town soak he's depending on
for a quick and successful close
to his season.
Keith: This is pretty much
all or nothing
when we start looking
at this gear.
Pray for crab.
Man: First pot coming up.
This is going to tell us
whether we can go home or not.
Narrator: After honing in on the
biomass on the first trip...
This is for everything
right here.
The veteran skipper banks
on the crab
having stuck around
while he was in town.
-All or nothing!
-Let's go!
Are we going to spend
a couple weeks out here,
or are we going to
get it done right now?
Keith:
I'm not being completely honest
if I didn't say
I was totally nervous right now.
I really hope we see
a bunch of crab in this pot.
[ indistinct shouting ]
come on!
Come on, crab.
First pot's on the bow.
What do you see?!
Eh...
Unh. Not as much as I wanted.
There's something in it.
But I don't know that
that's not just king crab.
There's bairdi mixed in
with that pot.
So that's not a good sign.
Narrator: With the bairdi
fishery closed this season...
Yeah. That's a big fine
right there.
...It's illegal to have them
in the tanks.
26. All right.
[bleep]
we got more gear to check.
One pot
doesn't make or break us.
So let's just hope
for the next one, you know?
Come on, crab legs.
Come on, crab.
Big number. Big number.
Come on, big number.
We got a couple females.
Keith:
Now, here's our second pot.
We're hoping for big numbers
on a long soak.
Seems like we're finding
more bairdi than we are king.
Keith:
I'm getting bairdi in every pot.
Narrator: But as the crew
continues to pull the gear,
the numbers from keith's
town soak go from bad...
Keith:
We got a count on the last pot?
-Four.
-Four?
Narrator: ...To worse.
Oh, please don't tell me
those crab ran away, man.
Come on, crab!
[ keith sighs ]
hey, go ahead and stack
that pot, okay? Stack it up.
It looks like we've
got to go on the hunt again.
We're gonna see if we can
find another hot spot.
[ telephone ringing ]
hey. Yeah, you said
you were going to be up.
So...
Yeah, it was kind of
a mixed day here.
The offload went fine.
But I took nick
to the clinic.
Narrator:
Troubling questions
about deck boss
nick mcglashan's health...
And they can't seem to find
anything wrong with him.
...Are keeping
wild bill up at night.
[ urinating ]
bill: No [bleep] way.
Are you really
pissing on my boat?
There's [bleep]
bye.
Narrator:
With two unwanted revelers
using bill's deck
as their toilet,
bill goes to break up the party.
No [bleep] way.
Nick, are you [bleep] serious?
What the --
you can't even [bleep] look
at me, you're so [bleep] up!
Can't even hold a cigarette
in your mouth!
Everybody's working
their ass off,
and you pull this [bleep]
[bleep] done with this.
[bleep] nightmare.
I've had it.
Son of a bitch.
The whole illness thing
was [bleep]
I can't take this [bleep]
anymore.
What is it with
these [bleep] guys?
[ coughs ]
I can't -- you know what?
I'm done with it.
His dad was done a long time
ago. Well, you know what?
I should have known
that was the [bleep] case.
And it's probably my fault
because I've given nick
the benefit of the doubt,
what, 30 times?
But this time
was [bleep] different.
I mean,
he's saying [bleep] like,
"I got cancer. I got pneumonia."
who would spread
that kind of [bleep] spew?
I'm sitting there near tears
thinking the son of a bitch
is going to die on me,
and it's not that at all.
I've had it.
No more will I deal with this.
All right.
Where in the [bleep] is nick?
Uh...
[bleep]
what the [bleep] is this?
Oh, my god.
No [bleep] way.
I'm sick of this [bleep], man.
I'm not having this
on my [bleep] boat.
[bleep]
narrator: Bill discovers that
his premier deckhand  is sick...
Bill: I cannot [bleep] believe
he has this on my boat.
Narrator:
...Sick from opiate addiction.
Bill: He's [bleep] gone.
Narrator:
Up the aleutian island chain...
...In akutan harbor...
You like that right here?
Okay.
I guess that's it.
...Captain jake anderson
eases the  saga into port
for an emergency offload.
Jake:
It's judgment day in akutan.
My main concern right now
is dead loss.
Bin-board problem.
Narrator: Loose bin boards
inside jake's rear tank
have put hundreds of thousands
of dollars worth of crab
in jeopardy...
...A misstep that could
leave jake's haul in ruin
and his future unknown.
Dave: That's from the crab
getting smashed.
I just see a whole lot
of [bleep] anger right now.
Narrator: As the pile of dead
crab continues to rise...
They need to get it out
of the [bleep] tank, though.
...Frustration builds.
That's their job.
You got to tell them to get it
the [bleep] out of there.
So pissed right now.
You don't tell these
[bleep] off-loaders
to do a [bleep] thing!
These off-loaders
do what they want to do.
You talk to one of these
[bleep] off-loaders again,
you're [bleep] fired.
I don't want you talking
to one of these factory guys.
Shut the [bleep] up!
Get out of here!
Out! Out!
I don't [bleep] like you!
[ indistinct shouting ]
yeah, if anybody tells
you guys what to do,
you tell them to [bleep] off.
You guys are the boss.
And you guys are my family.
Roger?
I started as a processor.
So I know the work.
I know these people,
these factory workers,
the processors.
And they're family.
So I'm going to be damned
if some [bleep] new guy's
going to go and yell
at people that
I've known longer than him.
I don't know.
He's just probably stressed
on his dead loss.
You know, it's a lot of money.
I don't know.
He's probably just
taking it out on me
because -- I don't know --
I was there.
Jake: I knew this day
was going to be bad.
I knew it was going to be the
exact opposite of good and fun.
Narrator: With over 100,000
pounds still to catch,
jake anderson
pulls into second place.
And after
a lackluster town soak,
keith falls into third.
Keith: All right, guys.
There was one snap
when I was getting off the dock.
I fired up the thruster.
And it's been about
a year since I've done it.
And I failed to
turn the hydros on.
That was me.
Keith: With that being said,
we do have something for you.
-The first recipient...
-Here we go.
-...Of...
-The super-duper dumper award,
presented to whoever
makes a screw-up.
[ laughter ]
you can hang onto that
until we pass the torch
to someone more deserving
than yourself.
[ laughter ]
narrator:
Akutan harbor on the  saga...
Jake:  Hey, sean,
can you ask them exactly
how much dead losses
came off the boat?
I got to tell the owner
right now on the phone.
Narrator:
...Forced to come in early
to minimize damage
to his catch...
Jake:
Just looking at the totes,
that looks like I'm going to
have like 4,000 pounds.
Narrator:
...Captain jake anderson
is staring at thousands
of dollars of dead crab.
Lenny has always
taken care of me.
But there's certain things
that he just can't cover.
Hey, sean,
so, what'd you get?
What did you s--
you didn't say what I think
you just said, did you?
Not 11,000, but 1,100?
Ole, can you confirm
1,100 pounds?
Shake your beard and say,
"golly mcjolly."
[ laughing ] golly mcjolly.
That's the best news
I heard all day!
Here I am crying like a baby,
kicking and screaming --
"oh, my god. The world's
going to end today."
and all's it was
was 1,100 pounds.
So this is fantastic.
Narrator:
Surprised by his luck...
[ telephone ringing ]
you got me?
...Jake places a call
to boat owner lenny herzog.
I got to have at least
80,000, 90,000.
There's still a chance.
Is that what you're saying?
[ laughs ]
yeah. I'll make sure
I take care of them.
I just need to be
a little bit nicer to them.
-All right. Bye.
-Thanks, lenny.
Narrator: Having made the right
call to offload early...
Jake:
Fantastic job, guys.
...The young captain
can get on with the business
of catching the rest
of his quota.
I feel a lot better
after all that.
That's for sure.
Narrator: Back down
the aleutian island chain...
Yeah, tim, when you get a
second, let's turn the keys up.
Let's go ahead and get
a little heat in the mains,
get ready to roll.
...On the  summer bay...
Nick wants this stuff
up on the dock.
After we get it all
bagged up,
we'll get out of here
and go finish our job
and put this thing away
and go home.
I mean, it's hard on all of us
nick's leaving.
But it's kind of --
I've done it too many times.
And I have given nick
more chances
than probably
every other crew member
I've ever had combined.
♪ whatever desire and flavor ♪
♪ whatever you fancy as true ♪
I call myself his pseudo dad
in a way, you know?
♪ oh, both with
or without a savior ♪
♪ we go home alone ♪
♪ and we're through ♪
the whole idea
of buying this boat
was to make it
a family business.
But kids are kids,
and sometimes,
business and family do not mix.
♪ so cast your line ♪
♪ and may be time ♪
whoo! King crab.
♪ will be good to you ♪
♪ come on and follow your star ♪
♪ there is only one ♪
♪ we're all some mother's son ♪
♪ all some mother's son ♪
[ indistinct conversations ]
what's up, zach?
Welcome to dutch, man.
-Welcome to the  brenna a.
-Oh.
Let's go
make this happen.
Sean called me
to go cod fishing
and offered me
a job for opie, so...
It's really going to be good.
It's going to be good for me.
[ engine turns over ]
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from OpenSubtitles.org